Step 1: Verify and Start Ollama

Since Ollama runs as a local background service, verify it is running and has the model pulled:

Verify if Ollama is running and Llama 3.2 3B is pulled: Open a PowerShell terminal and run:


ollama list

If the command succeeds, you should see llama3.2:3b in the output list.

If Ollama is not running:

Open the Ollama application from your Windows Start Menu (you should see the Ollama icon in your system tray).
Alternatively, you can start the Ollama service manually in a terminal using:


ollama serve

If the model is missing from the list: Pull the model by running:


ollama pull llama3.2:3b

Step 2: Set Up the Python Virtual Environment
Navigate to the root of the project directory and activate the pre-configured virtual environment:

Navigate to the project root (if not already there):


cd c:\GPP\Week15\Offline-Customer-Support-Chatbot-with-Ollama-and-Llama-3.2

Activate the virtual environment:


.\venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

(Note: You will see (venv) prepended to your command prompt line.)

Install the required packages (if not already installed):


pip install requests
Step 3: Execute the Chatbot Evaluation
Run the main script chatbot.py, which reads templates from the prompts directory, sends the 20 test customer queries to the local Ollama API, and saves the output.

Run the script:

python chatbot.py

What the script does:
It reads zero_shot_template.txt and one_shot_template.txt.

For each of the 20 queries, it submits both Zero-Shot and One-Shot prompts to the model.
It formats and logs all answers directly into a table in eval/results.md.

Step 4: Review and Grade the Output
Open the eval/results.md file.

Review the responses and manually grade each one on a scale of 1-5 for:
Relevance: Did the agent address the query?
Coherence: Was the grammar and flow correct?
Helpfulness: Did it offer actionable steps for a customer of Chic Boutique?
Read the detailed comparison of findings in the report.md file.

Step 5: (Optional) Interactive Mode
If you want to test the model interactively and ask your own custom questions, you can run:


ollama run llama3.2:3b

Type any question (e.g. "Hi, do you sell red dresses?").
Type /bye and press Enter to exit.